Local testing best practices (#12111)
cockroachdb/docs: v21.2/local-testing.md

---
title: Test Your Application
summary: Best practices for locally testing an application built on CockroachDB
toc: true
---

This page documents best practices for unit testing applications built on CockroachDB.

If you are deploying a self-hosted cluster, see the [Production Checklist](recommended-production-settings.html) for information about preparing your cluster for production.

## Use a local, single-node cluster with in-memory storage

The [`cockroach start-single-node`](cockroach-start-single-node.html) command starts a single-node, insecure cluster with [in-memory storage](cockroach-start-single-node.html#store):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
cockroach start-single-node --insecure --store=type=mem,size=0.25 --advertise-addr=localhost
~~~

Using in-memory storage improves the speed of the cluster for local testing purposes.

You can also run `cockroach start-single-node` in [secure mode](cockroach-start-single-node.html#security).

> 

Reviewer: Why would you choose to do that?

## Log test output to a file

> By default, `cockroach start-single-node` logs cluster activity to a file with the [default logging configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration). When the `--store=type=mem` flag is specified, the command prints cluster activity directly to the console instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `cockroach start-single-node` logs cluster activity to a file with the [default logging configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration). To print cluster activity directly to the console instead, specify  the `--store=type=mem` flag.
```

To customize logging behavior for local clusters, use the [`--log` flag](cockroach-start-single-node.html#logging):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
cockroach start-single-node --insecure --store=type=mem,size=0.25 --advertise-addr=localhost --log="{file-defaults: {dir: /path/to/logs}, sinks: {stderr: {filter: NONE}}}"
~~~

> This particular command includes two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command has two options:
```

Reviewer: Or "this flag has two suboptions".
